# Magic
## Magical attributes
The magical attributes are the basis to cast a specific spell.
Complex magic uses several magical attributes and may require a specific amount of points.
The player can spend magic points to increase the magical attributes.

The primary magical attribute costs once magic point per point in the attribute.
The second magical attribute costs two magic points per point, etc.
The order in which a magical attribute is considered primary, secondary etc., 
is defined by the order in which magic points were first spend in.

## Potency of magic
The potency of a spell will be rolled in a secondary dice rolls, which is pre defined in the spells manual.
In order to succeed with a spell, a trial has to be passed in all required magical attributes.

## Resistances
Resistances can be positive and negative. The effects depend on the dice outcome. 

| Resistance | Critical Failure | Failure | Success | Critical Success |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ------- | ------- | ---------------- |
| Positive | +25% | 0% | -25% | -50% |
| Negative | +50% | +25% | 0% | -25% |  

## Fix costs to learning spells
It does not suffice to have the required magical attributes. 
In order to learn a spell, a fix amount of magic points have to be spend in order to acquire the spell.
Additionally, spell scrolls can be found that can teach certain spells.
The game master can also grant spells in exchange for a disadvantage.
When a character has a sufficient amount of points in a magical attribute, 
the character is granted the elemental attack spell.

## Mana
The character must have a sufficient amount of mana in order to cast a spell.
If the character does not have enough mana, the game master can to decide to impose a difficulty on the required dice roll, 
or decrease the potency of the spell.

Mana = **Sum** of positive magical attributes, divided by 10.

Mana can be regenerated by using potions, sleeping, eating or drinking.

## Casting spells
If the player decides to use special incantations or explains complex rituals 
and overall creates a good role-play experience, the game master can decide to decrease the difficulty to pass a trial.
Lazy role-play or trying to be particular "cool" can increase the difficulty.